Phase 3 orchestration cluster core settings (#6526)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/components/orchestration-cluster/core-settings/concepts/backups.md

---
id: backups
title: "Backups"
description: "Learn more about backups with the Orchestration Cluster."
---

> When running an orchestration cluster with **Operate** and **Tasklist**, you must configure a snapshot repository in your chosen database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running an orchestration cluster with **Secondary Storage**, you must configure a snapshot repository in your chosen database:
```
Would it make more sense to frame it this way? I don't know to what extent users are familiar with this concept though

Author: I'll adjust the wording, and link to the changes with https://github.com/camunda/camunda-docs/pull/6779/files once they are merged.

---
id: backups
title: "Backups"
description: "Learn more about backups with the Orchestration Cluster."
---

When running an orchestration cluster with **Operate** and **Tasklist**, you must configure a snapshot repository in your chosen database:

- [Elasticsearch snapshot repository](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/snapshot-restore.html)
- [OpenSearch snapshot repository](https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/)

Both Operate and Tasklist are configured with the snapshot repository name to trigger database snapshots. This ensures coherent backups across all components.

:::info
Learn more about the backup procedure and why it must be triggered through Camunda components in the [backup guide](/self-managed/operational-guides/backup-restore/backup-and-restore.md).
:::

## Configuration parameters

| Component | Configuration key                        | Description                      | Default value |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ------------- |

> | Operate   | `camunda.operate.backup.repositoryName`  | ES / OS snapshot repository name | -             |

Reviewer 2: This is a legacy configuration key.
The new configuration key is `camunda.data.backup.repository-name`.
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1R4epsy6DWemA8_76cUE6zOGUFbrXCXlM2reXnKFuz7Y/edit?gid=818158292#gid=818158292&range=149:149

Is this intended? Maybe I'm missing context

Author: Adjusting in latest commit 👍
